Athens trivia
=============

Si fueris Romae, Romano vivito more, si fueris alibi, vivito sicut ibi.


Athens dominates the Attica region and is one of the world's oldest cities, with its recorded history spanning around 3,400 years, and the earliest human presence started somewhere between the 11th and 7th millennium BC.

Athens became the first Cultural Capital of Europe in 1985.

Athens has been continuously inhabited for at least 7000 years.

Athens spreads across the central plain of Attica and is bounded by four large mountains, namely, Mount Pamitha, Mount Penteli, Mount Aegalio, and Mount Hymettus.

Athens is home to 148 theatrical stages, more than any other city in the world, including the ancient Odeon of Herodes Atticus, home to the Athens Festival, which runs from May to October each year.

An etiological myth explaining how Athens has acquired this name was well known among ancient Athenians. The goddess of wisdom, Athena and the god of the seas, Poseidon had many disagreements and battles between them, and one of these was a race to be the Patron God of the city. In an attempt to compel the people, Poseidon created a salt water spring by striking the ground with his trident, symbolizing naval power. However, when Athena created the olive tree, symbolizing peace and prosperity, the Athenians, under their ruler Cecrops, accepted the olive tree and named the city after Athena.

A large part of the town’s historic centre has been converted into a 3-kilometre pedestrian zone (the largest in Europe), leading to the major archaeological sites (“archaeological park”), reconstructing – to a large degree – the ancient landscape.

Athens is named after Athena, the goddess of wisdom, who defeated Poseidon to become the patroness of the city. Moreover Athens is the capital and largest city of Greece

Athens is recognised as a global city because of its geo-strategic location and its importance in shipping, finance, commerce, media, entertainment, arts, international trade, culture, education and tourism. It is one of the biggest economic centres in southeastern Europe, with a large financial sector, and its port Piraeus is the largest passenger port in Europe,

Athens is the city with the most beautiful hills in the world. Lycabettus, Acropolis and Filopappou provide a great view to the whole city.

Athens is famous, more than any other European capital, for its nightlife . With the famous "bouzoukia" being the leaders in Athenian entertainment.

Athens is statistically one of the lowest ranking capital cities when it comes to violent crime.

Fun Fact: Every full moon in August, the Acropolis stays open until 2am with live music and theatrical performances; it is free to all.

Historical Fact: Fifth-century Athens,BC. This was a period of Athenian political hegemony, economic growth and cultural flourishing formerly known as the Golden Age of Athens with the later part The Age of Pericles.
For example, the playwrights Aeschylus, Sophocles and Euripides all lived and worked in 5th century BCE Athens, as did the historians Herodotus and Thucydides, the physician Hippocrates, and the philosopher Socrates

Interesting Fact: It is said that the temple of Athena Aphaia,Poseidon's temple and Acropolis of Athens form a triangle.

The journey of one of the largest international events, Olympics Games, started from Athens in 776 BC. With some modifications and alterations in the ancient form, the modern Olympics, that we know today, were launched in the year 1896.

Athens is considered the cradle of Western civilisation, being the birthplace of democracy, Western philosophy and literature, the Olympic Games, political science, major mathematical principles and theatre

Omonia Square is the oldest square in Athens.

Athens became the first Cultural Capital of Europe in 1985.

Weird Fact: The first modern king of Greece was a Bavarian prince and only 17 years old.

Many scholars believe that theatres originated from Athens. The structure of theatres that we see today is based on Greek theatres having semi-circular sitting with rows of seats.

Athens is the most populated region of Greece, with a population of around 4,591,568 people in 2011. However, it is also one of the smallest regions in the country, being less than 1% of the total area of Greece

Do not forget to visit "Cine - Thission", the oldest open air cinema in Athens (1935) with a unique full view to Acropolis.

The city center of Athens is only 15 sq miles or 39 sq kilometers.

The temple of Parthenon was constructed to house the new cult statue of the goddess by Pheidias and to proclaim to the world the success of Athens as leader of the coalition of Greek forces which had defeated the invading Persian armies of Darius and Xerxes.

In the center of Athens it is very common to find street vendors selling salep. Salep is a hot beverage consisting commonly of milk, salep flour, sugar and cinnamon.
